.TH GNUNET-TRACEKIT "1" "20 Feb 2003" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet-tracekit \- overlay network traceing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-tracekit
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
gnunet-tracekit can be used to visualize the GNUnet overlay
network.  This tool broadcasts a message into the network
querying every peer about a list of other connected peers.
The result is then printed to the screen.
.PP
gnunet-tracekit is primarily useful for developers to determine
the structure of the network.  End-users will find little use
for the tool itself (except to satisfy their curiosity) but
should at the moment still enable this protocol to help the
developers that trace the network.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=\fIFILENAME\fR
load config file (defaults: ~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf)
\fB\-W \fIWAIT\fR, \fB\-\-wait=\fIWAIT\fR
set how many seconds to wait for replies
\fB\-D \fIDEPTH\fR, \fB\-\-depth=\fIDEPTH\fR
until which depth should the network be traced (how many hops)
\fB\-F \fIFORMAT\fR, \fB\-\-format=\fIFORMAT\fR
specifies the output format, 0 is human readable, 1 is dot
\fB\-P \fIPRIORITY\fR, \fB\-\-priority=\fIPRIORITY\fR
what should the priority of the probe be
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=\fILOGLEVEL\fR
change the loglevel. Possible values for \fILOGLEVEL\fR are NOTHING, FATAL, ERROR, FAILURE, WARNING, MESSAGE, INFO, DEBUG, CRON and EVERYTHING.
.SH NOTES
gnunet-tracekit may not be supported by all GNUnet peers.  Peers that
do not support tracekit will still be discovered and will be marked specially
in the output.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
Users GNUnet configuration file
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <http://www.ovmj.org/~mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
