.TH GNUNET-CHECK "1" "26 Apr 2004" "GNUnet"
.SH NAME
gnunet-check \- a tool to check gnunetd's storage for consistency 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnunet\-check
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gnunet-check checks gnunetd's AFS databases for consistency.
This includes verifying that the different lookup methods
used by GNUnet (index list, database buckets, bloomfilters, 
etc) are consistent with each other. In some cases the
only solution available is to remove the problematic data entry.
.PP
WARNING: Each problematic but fixable, nonindexed content 
block will be restored with priority 0. This means that as
the database gets full, the restored content is among
the first to flush out. 
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help page
.TP
\fB\-c \fIFILENAME\fR, \fB\-\-config=FILENAME\fR
load config file (default: /etc/gnunet.conf)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print the version number
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-update\fR
update AFS databases from one version of GNUnet to another (if possible)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-all\fR
check everything
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fB\-\-files\fR
check only the file list database (re-inserts all indexed files and checks if the database is consistent with that)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-data\fR
check the block database (walks over all blocks in the database and checks if they make sense)
.TP
\fB\-p \fIPRIORITY\fR, \fB\-\-prio=PRIORITY\fR
priority for the restored, non-indexed content. For indexed content, the config file value GNUNET-INSERT/CONTENT-PRIORITY will be used. NOTE: priority defaults to 0 which will cause the restored content to flush out when the disk gets full. 
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fB\-\-nofix\fR
check but do not fix problems
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet.
.TP
\fB\-L \fILOGLEVEL\fR, \fB\-\-loglevel=LOGLEVEL\fR
change the loglevel. Possible values for LOGLEVEL are NOTHING, FATAL, ERROR, FAILURE, WARNING, MESSAGE, INFO, DEBUG, CRON and EVERYTHING.
.SH NOTES
gnunet-check can run for a long, long time, depending on
how much content you are sharing.  You should
also expect to see some heavy disk activity.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.gnunet/gnunet.conf
Used GNUnet configuration file
.TP
~/.gnunet/data/afs/*
AFS database related files.
.TP
~/.gnunet/data/afs/database*
Indexing database files.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using mantis <http://www.ovmj.org/~mantis/> or by sending electronic mail to <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgnunet\-search\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-insert\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-gtk\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-search\fP(1), \fBgnunet\-download\fP(1), \fBgnunet.conf\fP(5), \fBgnunetd\fP(1)
